=begin pod

=head1 NAME

B<DateTime::US> - Provides time zone and Daylight Saving Time (DST) information for US states and territories

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=begin code :lang<raku>
use DateTime::US;
=end code

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Module B<DateTime::US> provides a class and functions used to help Raku programs needing US time zone and DST information.
The user creates a DateTime::US object by providing a US time zone abbreviation.  The list of known data may be
listed without an object:

=begin code
$ raku
> use DateTime::US;
> show-us-data;
=end code

The main use case that motivated the module is to convert time in UTC to local
time for creating calendars and almanacs. For example, local Sunrise is
given in UTC and will normally be shown on a calendar in local time:

=begin code
my $tz = DateTime.new: :timezone('CST');
my $sunrisez = 2022-10-03T05:45:00Z;
my $localtime = $tz.to-local :utc($sunrisez);
=end code

=head2 Class methods

=begin item
B<to-localtime>(DateTime :$utc! --> DateTime) {...}

Given a time in UTC, convert to local time and adjust for DST.
=end item

=begin item
B<to-utc>(DateTime :$localtime! --> DateTime) {...}

Given a local time, convert to UTC with adjustment for DST.
=end item

=head2 Subroutines

=begin item
B<begin-dst>($year --> DateTime) {...}

Return the time when DST begins.
=end item

=begin item
B<end-dst>($year --> DateTime) {..}

Return the time when DST ends.
=end item

=begin item
B<is-dst>(DateTime :$localtime! --> Bool) {...}

Return True if the local time is DST, otherwise return False.
=end item

=begin item
B<show-us-data>(--> Str) {...}

List the time zone and DST data being used.
=end item

=head1 SEE ALSO

=begin item
Module B<DateTime::Timezones>

In contrast to Matthew Stuckwisch's module, this module does not use any
of the IANA timezone database and relies only on the power of the Raku
DateTime type, the short list of time zone UTC offsets
for standard US time zones, and the standard dates and time of Daylight Saving Time
begin/end enshrined in US Public Law.
=end item

=head1 Todo

Provide handling for the exceptions to use of DST where indicated.

=head1 Note

The author is happy to create or collaborate on a similar module for other regions.
If interested, simply file an issue or discuss it on IRC #raku (author's handle is 'tbrowder').

=head1 AUTHOR

Tom Browder <tbrowder@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright © 2021 Tom Browder

This library is free software; you may redistribute or modify it under the Artistic License 2.0.

=end pod
